---
layout: post
title: Project 1 NHL & API & ZZZ (Catch Up On Sleep)
---
Here's the link to the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/LynnSHuang/ST558-Project-1) and to the [nicely-rendered vignette](https://lynnshuang.github.io/ST558-Project-1/). I set the permission to public on September 18, 2020, so it should be accessible. If not, please shoot me an [e-mail](mailto:lynnshuang94@gmail.com).  

#### What did you do in the project?
This project examined data from the National Hockey League, as provided through their Application Programming Interface (API), which is just a way for computers to talk to other computers and request information. You've probably seen an API in action before when you've scrolled through a weird webpage with lots of curly braces or quotes and identation!  
The second objective of this project was to honor our R ancestoRs before us, who wrote many useful packages of functions and left wonderful documentation in the form of vignettes. Vignettes contain a general description of the problem at hand (how can I get NHL data?), explanations of functions (the data-getters) and their options, as well as some examples. Everything was constructed using the R programming language.  

#### What did you find out?
Well, I found out I really don't know much about hockey and that APIs are very fickly formatted at times, making the process of digging for information difficult.  
In terms of hockey analysis, I looked specifically at my hometown team (Los Angeles Kings) and noticed that non-goalie players were more likely to have played as rookies. In goalies, it appears that those who started as rookies were better (higher percentage of games won). In non-goalie skaters, this trend didn't exist.

Zooming out on the NFL in general, there are 2 conferences and 4 divisions--2 divisions per conference. The Eastern Conference includes the Atlantic and Metropolitan divisions (including Raleigh's own Carolina Hurricanes). The Western Conference includes the Central and Pacific divisions (go Kings!). Maybe it seems obvious, but I didn't realize divisions were evenly distributed with 8 teams apiece, except for the Central conference having 7, and seeing the box plot of this was actually helpful for me.

A scatterplot of goals scored vs. goals allowed was used to identify teams that performed poor or well. The Detroit Red Wings had an unusually high number of goals allowed for the amount of goals they were scoring themselves, while the Boston Bruins were vice versa. A further examination of their non-goalie skaters revealed that the Bruins have more high-scoring players than the Red Wings, perhaps explaining this discrepancy.  

#### Lessons Learned
What would you do differently in approaching the project?
I would've started earlier, and probably consulted with other classmates who know more about hockey.  

What was the most difficult part of the logic and programming for you?  
Without a doubt, the careful combing through the formatted data returned from the APIs. Good old ggplot2 was also tricky.  

What are your big take-aways for future projects?  
You can try your best, and still be confused by APIs! A lot of my results depend on the NHL still hosting this API in its current form. If they were to change queries, much of the work would need to be redone.  
