---
layout: post
title: Project 2 Bikes & Trees
---

Here's the link to the [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/LynnSHuang/ST558-Project-2) and to the [nicely-rendered page](https://lynnshuang.github.io/ST558-Project-2/). I set the permission to public on October 16, 2020, so it should be accessible. If not, please shoot me an [e-mail](mailto:lynnshuang94@gmail.com).  

#### What did you do in the project?
This project examined data from the Capital bike sharing system in Washington D.C. The primary objective was to predict the number of bikes being used each day based on numeric categorical variables like season/month/day and numeric continuous variables like temperature and humidity.  
The second objective of this project was to honor our R ancestoRs before us (AKA me from 2 months ago, this time), and practice a bit of R Markdown, numeric and graphical summaries, and different types of tree-based regression methods. Everything was constructed using the R programming language.  

#### What did you find out?
Well, I found out I know more about bike sharing than hockey! It appears that temperature and time of year are important predictors, and they do show up in the regression trees (see the reports), usually at the top. Weirdly enough, it appears Saturday to Tuesday have temp or atemp at the top of the regression trees, whereas the rest of the week from Wednesday to Friday have yr at the top. It also appears that days that are adjacent (Monday and Sunday) have similar looking regression trees, with the same types of splits (just slightly different values).  

It also appears boosted trees perform very well in prediction (better than the regression tree for each of the days) because of the many (I had 10000!) weak trees that go into improving the predictions. It's kind of cute, all those trees helping each other. Almost as if it were by design, not a random forest at all (OK, terrible stats puns done).  

Also, wow is automation hard to work properly! I had the longest time where I couldn't get R to recognize the Markdown `params`, but it turns out it was my fault because I usually add a `rm(list=ls())` command at the beginning of a file to clean up from any previous R objects leftover from previous experimentation. Turns out this removes `params` too! Because params is loaded before `rm(list=ls())` is called. This little bug took me so long to figure out. I think this is operator error, no fault of R.  

#### Lessons Learned
What would you do differently in approaching the project?
I would've started earlier, but work and other life projects had a funny way of getting *in* the way.  

What was the most difficult part of the logic and programming for you?  
Without a doubt, the R Markdown automation work and waiting for code to run with fingers crossed. Good old ggplot2 was much less tricky now.  

What are your big take-aways for future projects?  
I'm excited to collaborate with a classmate on their analysis next and see what 2 minds can achieve in the world of bikes and trees! Maybe this is a good time to learn how to ride a bike too.  
