---
layout: post
title: Blog Dos
---
Everyone in ST558 had some programming experience coming in (due to the prerequisites).  What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?  What functionality do you like about R?  What parts do you miss about your other language?  Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)

I first picked up R at my previous job out of necessity. I'd never used it before, and was reluctant to learn another language (which seemed so different than the Python and Java and C that I'd learned in my computer science courses in undergrad). Boy am I glad I learned R! I wish I'd had a formal class (like this one!) to teach me the ins and outs of the language, especially with small programming assignments to test out newly learned R know-how. My learning experience was very piece-meal and slow.
My favorite part about R is how many packages there are. I was able to start building elastic net models in my previous job without really understanding what RIDGE and LASSO even meant. This is also one of the drawbacks to R--perhaps it's too easy to just slap a package on your code and not fully understand how you're generating results? I also appreciate how R analyzes dataframes in parallel, which was very intuitive for anyone who'd written an Excel formula and then copy-pasted it and watched Excel auto-fill using that formula. Python has packages that let you work with dataframes, but that's not how it was originally set-up.
I've been told that Python scripts are easier to run with parallel computing, and R doesn't have as much support in this aspect. Haven't experience this myself, so I can't be sure, but this could be one drawback.
